well howdy there internet people heads
bow again so we're going to talk about
that incident in Broward County if
you're not familiar with it
deputies beat up some kids that's what
it boils down to we're not going to talk
about whether or not the use of force
was justified based on the statements
that we have it wasn't but we don't have
all the statements we do not have all of
the facts so we can't really talk about
that but there is something extremely
interesting that occurred in that video
that seems to be getting missed and it's
something that citizens in general and
especially police accountability
activists need to pay attention to so
what happened was kid was detained and
another kid looks like you picked
something up off the ground we can't
tell because there's a crowd of people
but when he comes up on officers
approaching him
looks like he's you know basically
saying what are you doing or something
like that we can't hear it but all of a
sudden that pepper sprays it the kid
covers his face goes falls back in the
crowd kind of flailing around cop grabs
and throws him to the ground now what
most people are focusing on is the other
officer who comes over smashes the kids
face into the concrete punches him in
the back of the head because he's trying
to cover his face and then smashes his
face again that's what they're focusing
on and yeah that that's important that's
definitely important piece of a puzzle
but rather than watching that and the
other officers coming in a screen pay
attention to the officer who pepper
sprayed him he walks towards in places
one foot right at his hip the other foot
a little bit back bends both of his
knees and his arm is coming up like this
anybody who's been arrested knows what's
about to happen that kid is about to
fill that knee in the back of his and
the small of his back center of his back
and that elbow and that forearm is about
to rest right here what that tells me is
that
this department at least some people in
it are trained in the proper way to do
this you can maintain control of a
suspect without smashing their face into
the concrete in fact that's pretty much
wholly unwarranted as far as legal
tactical and medical liability the legal
and medical liability there's pretty
high and you're not gaining a big
tactical advantage it's not warranted
now what is warranted and what is within
policy are rarely the same thing I don't
see a high likelihood of people who are
calling for justice in this case getting
what they want because more than likely
this is gonna come back as within policy
you need to move to change the policy
because what it appears to me is that
this department has been trained in the
right way to do this and that the deputy
that smashes his face into it
just chose not to it's important now
maybe he's a new deputy maybe he wasn't
trained in it there's a whole lot we
don't know but that's a pretty important
piece that I don't see getting discussed
that officer who pepper sprayed him was
calm he was he was abrasive he was
commanding but he didn't look like he
had let his emotions take control of him
look at the other deputy people are
asking and this has been a specific
question I've gotten why did he throw
him to the ground to begin with I know
this is gonna sound weird that is the
right move
he pepper sprayed him okay
he used force on and be going into
custody okay that much is that's just
standard whether or not it's right it's
it's what pretty much always happens as
far as throwing him to the ground the
reason it's the right thing to do isn't
it after the pepper spray the kid is
blind he's in a crowd and he's flailing
he is a risk to the other people in the
crowd putting him on the ground is the
right thing to do the way it was done
but I guarantee you that's with them
policy not the way I would suggest it
but that doesn't look like it was done
with malice that looks like well we
gotta put him down and here we go
and it certainly appears that that
deputy attempted to take him into
custody in the right way and was
interrupted by the other officer and the
other deputy it's something that people
need to pay attention to because that
tells you that the department has the
training and has the skills that it
needs to have and it's just not using
them now again all of this is
preliminary we could find out more we
could find out that you know he bent
down to pick up a gun or a knife I doubt
it
I seriously doubt it the most likely
story that I have heard it appears he
was picking up a phone that was dropped
again don't know if it's true we don't
have all of those details yet what we do
know is that the deputy who pepper
sprayed him was attempting to do it the
right way and it's very clear from the
video go back watch it watch the
different angles and you'll see that
very deliberate movement it's exactly
what he was gonna do anyway it's just a
fault y'all have a good night